My six step analysis process to draw conclusion and make data driven decision making.

ASK phase:
---stakeholder---
  - my manager
  
---defining the problem---
  - the stakeholder rise in the office the question "How pandemic impacted the work from the office and if is better to work from home?"
  - I used the S.M.A.R.T framework to ask effective question to make sure I indentify the problem and fully understand my stakeholder needs and questions.
  -- S -- Specific (questions that are simple and on topic)
  
         Q: What seems to be the problem?
         A: It seems to me that employee productivity has declined.
         
         Q: What you want to know after the study?
         A: What employees think about work from home.
         
  -- M -- Measurable (questions that have quantificable respondes)
         
         Q: What data we have available?
         A: No data.
         
         Q: How many employees will participate? All? They will be participate random or voluntary?
         A: The survey participation is voluntary.
         
  -- A -- Action oriented (question that encourage change)
  -- R -- Relevant (question that are important and semnificable for the problem in question)
         
         Q: What do you expect from this analysis?
         A: The percentage of employees that want to work from home.
         
  -- T -- Time bound (question that limit the spatial-time interval, to make the data analyst to concentrate on relevancy)

---indentifying in which scenario we are---
This is a prediciton sitation, because we use data to make decision about the future of the company work type.
          
Prepare phase:
 Based on the ask phase in this phase I developed question to gather the data I need to respond to the stakeholder needs.
 I establish the rules for who would have access to the data collected (me and my manager, but my manager will have restricted access)
 
Process phase:
 I decided the fact that data will be stored, organized and analyzed in Excel(spreadsheet) because in this case only 10 out of 14 employees have completed the survey
 (small data and there's no need for a database).
 I cleaned the data to make sure it is complete, correct and relevant.
 
Analyze phase: 
 I found that 9 out of 10 employees worked from home before, and all of them said that they feel more productive at home.
 I found that 90% of employees go to work from home, regardless of when they are employed. 
 The main reason for this is time spend on the road to arrive at the office and leave from the office, another reasons are productivity and food.
 Only one person wnats to work from the office, and 40% of the respondes said that the only reasons to work from the office is socializing.
 All the employees desire to work from home after the pandemic, 80% only from home, 10% hybrid program and 10% don't know yet.
 
Share phase:
 I share my foundings with my manager and give her insights.
 
Action phase:
 The manager had a meeting with the team and introduce the work from home program during the wave 4 of the pandemic.
 
